Of this he grants but little to mortal men yet that little is the source of the greatest good to cities and individuals. Because no city ought to be easily able to imitate its enemies in what is mischievous.
About what. The Greek is in places very ungrammatical and intractable. I have described the dances which are appropriate to noble bodies and generous souls. The unfitness would be increased by the short period during which they held office?
Education is the last word with which Plato supposes the theory of the Laws to end and the reality to begin. For every one of us is made pretty much what he is by the bent of his desires and the nature of his soul. Punishments of offences and modes of procedure come next in order!
For minute regulations are apt to be transgressed, and frequent transgressions impair the habit of obedience to the laws.
That is very true. What do you bid us keep in mind. Or try the matter by the test which we apply to all laws, - who will say that the permission of such things tends to virtue.
By all means. I think that every one will admit the truth of your description! If the soul carries round the sun, we shall not be far wrong in supposing one of three alternatives.
It was also an army devoted to military exercises, but organized with a view to self-defence and not to conquest. There is a fourth class of persons answering to our spectators, who come from another land to look at ours.
Plato, like the Spartans, had a prejudice against a navy, because he regarded it as the nursery of democracy. Is the difference such as might be expected to arise at different times of life or under different circumstances.
Still I cannot but say what appears to me to be right and true, Cleinias. To what do you refer. That we should avoid every word of evil omen let that kind of song which is of good omen be heard everywhere and always in our state.
Now the laws about all divine things should be brought from Delphi, and interpreters appointed, under whose direction they should be used.
These ought to have been spoken of before for no man can marry a wife, and have slaves, who has not a house for them to live in. Let guarantees be clearly given in writing and before witnesses.
For the legislator appears to have a duty imposed upon him which goes beyond mere legislation. The wardens of the city shall be three in number, and they shall have the care of the streets, roads, buildings, and also of the water-supply. There is another thing which would probably happen?
What is it.
And so holding fast to the rope we will venture upon the depths of the argument. Let us acknowledge, then, that we have a preamble! So much for the subjects of education. In all states the birth of children goes back to the connexion of marriage.
Justifiable or excusable homicide.
And first permit me to tell you how good and bad are to be estimated in reference to these very matters. To effect this is no easy matter, and requires a great deal of virtue. Even the worst of men have often a divine instinct, which enables them to judge of the differences between the good and bad.
Now, which is in the truest sense inferior, the man who is overcome by pleasure or by pain! In a well-constituted state, individuals cannot be allowed to live as they please. For many centuries it retained the same character which was impressed upon it by the hand of the legislator.
For I will tell you what has happened to me and I regard the coincidence as a sort of omen.
Shall I tell you why!
And let there be the same laws about women in relation to women, and about men and women in relation to one another.
Or we may once more imagine him following in another state of being the great company of heaven which he beheld of old in a vision. In any suit which a man brings, let the indictment be scrupulously true, for justice is an honourable maiden, to whom falsehood is naturally hateful. To be sure. But now he has attained to a clearer point of view he has discarded these fancies.
What you say, Stranger, is most true? The virtue of Tyrtaeus, although needful enough in his own time, is really of a fourth-rate description. A metic must purchase the choice fruit but a stranger may pluck for himself and his attendant.
But if a slave kill a freeman, let him be as a parricide. And if there were a lack of competitors, the ridicule of fools would not deter us from hanging up a lifeless image and practising at that? The most extreme democracy of modern times has never thought of leaving government wholly to chance. Your remark, Stranger, is a paradox, and yet we cannot possibly deny it.
For they say that all these imitations are pleasant, but not good. Shall they sing a choric strain! But are sure that it must be vast and incalculable.
One. Two. Three. Four! Five. Six. Seven. Eight! Nine? Ten?
But Cyrus, though a wise general, never troubled himself about the education of his family. The practice is more easy for us to understand than for you, by reason of certain amusements which are carried to excess by us at Athens. What is it. I suppose not.
Next as to temperance what institutions have you which are adapted to promote temperance. Ten are to be elected by vote, and he of the ten who is chosen by lot shall undergo a scrutiny, and lead the choruses for a year according to law. The old men speak as they might be expected to speak, and in this there is a touch of dramatic truth.
But equal proportions, whether of quality or quantity, and not pleasure, speaking generally, would give them truth or rightness.
You say that you abominate those who are not eager to taste their enemies blood, and you seem to mean chiefly their foreign enemies. If men cannot have a rational belief, they will have an irrational.
For the man the same order shall be observed as in the preceding case. Such dances cannot be characterized either as warlike or peaceful, and are unsuited to a civilized state.
You quite understand me do as you say! BOOK VI. Further, let there be a general law which will have a tendency to repress impiety. In all outrages and acts of violence, the elder is to be more regarded than the younger.
That seems to be implied in the present argument?
Why do I mention this. But let us not forget what a courageously mad creation this our city is.
What question! Certainly I should. The dead are only to be exposed for three days, which is long enough to test the reality of death!
From this the laws about all divine things are to be derived. No but we think that you are too severe upon the money-loving temper, of which you seem in the present discussion to have a peculiar dislike! It must be admitted that these principles are difficult of application. He shall assume the fathers and ancestors of the family, while the first son dies in dishonour and his name is blotted out?
There was a second consisting of pleasures and desires, and a third of hopes, which aimed at true opinion about the best! There are various expedients by which he sought to impart to it the quality of moderation.
Such a sadness was the natural effect of declining years and failing powers, which make men ask, After all, what profit is there in life?
And this higher work ought to be pursued night and day to the exclusion of every other. Exactly. Wherefore the legislator ought not to allow the education of children to become a secondary or accidental matter.
In this case he shall be exiled for a year, and if he return before the expiration of the year, he shall be retained in the public prison two years. This is a knowledge which goes beyond that either of the poets or of their auditors in general.
The class of elder and younger men and women are still to regard one another, as in the Republic, as standing in the relation of parents and children. To this council the Spectator, who is sent to visit foreign countries, has to make his report. The citations from the poets have lost that fanciful character which gave them their charm in the earlier dialogues. Whereas the physician may often be too happy if he can restore health, and make the body whole, without any very great infliction of pain.